*Breaking change* Deprecate `CurvedAnimation.reverseCurve` in favor of `AsymmetricCurvedAnimation` (#13347)
flutter/website: sites/docs/src/content/release/breaking-changes/deprecate-curved-animation-reverse-curve.md

---
title: Deprecate `CurvedAnimation.reverseCurve` in favor of `AsymmetricCurvedAnimation`
description: >-
  CurvedAnimation is becoming a single-curve animation.
  Use AsymmetricCurvedAnimation for different curves in
  the forward and reverse directions.
---

{% render "docs/breaking-changes.md" %}

## Summary

[`CurvedAnimation`][]'s [`reverseCurve`][] field has been deprecated.

To use distinct curves for forward and reverse directions,
switch from [`CurvedAnimation`][] to [`AsymmetricCurvedAnimation`][].

## Background

To support its [`reverseCurve`][] functionality,
`CurvedAnimation` had to add listeners to its [`parent`][]

> to keep track of its direction.
> If you forget to call the [`dispose`][] method when you're done,
> those listeners would stick around in memory and prevent Dart from
> freeing up unneeded resources.
> 
> But the most common use case of `CurvedAnimation` is with a single curve,
> meaning these listeners aren't even needed most of the time.
> 
> For this reason, [`reverseCurve`][] is being removed from [`CurvedAnimation`][]
> and moved to [`AsymmetricCurvedAnimation`][].
> 
> After a migration period,
> it will be removed from `CurvedAnimation` alongside its listeners.
> This means more memory safety with [`CurvedAnimation`][] and
> less code to write, since you won't need to dispose it.
> 
> :::note
> Until the migration period is over,
> remember to still call [`dispose`] when you're done.
> 
> If you use [`AsymmetricCurvedAnimation`][],
> you still need to call its [`dispose`][] method regardless.
> :::

Reviewer: What do you think of this?

```suggestion
To support its [`reverseCurve`][] functionality,
`CurvedAnimation` had to add listeners to its [`parent`][]
to keep track of its direction.
If you forget to call the [`dispose`][] method when you're done,
those listeners would leak.

However, most animations use the same curve for the forward
and reverse directions.

To make the common case leak-proof, `CurvedAnimation`'s
`reverseCurve` functionality is moving to a separate class:
[`AsymmetricCurvedAnimation`][].

In the future, the `reverseCurve` field will be removed from
`CurvedAnimation`.

:::note
Until the deprecation period is over, you must continue to
call [`dispose`][] on [`CurvedAnimation`]. If you switch to [`AsymmetricCurvedAnimation`][], you must always call its
[`dispose`][] method to clean up its active direction listeners.
:::
```

Author: Looks good, thanks

---
title: Deprecate `CurvedAnimation.reverseCurve` in favor of `AsymmetricCurvedAnimation`
description: >-
  CurvedAnimation is becoming a single-curve animation.
  Use AsymmetricCurvedAnimation for different curves in the forward and
  reverse directions.
---

{% render "docs/breaking-changes.md" %}

## Summary

[`CurvedAnimation`][]'s [`reverseCurve`][] field has been deprecated.

If needed,

> switch from [`CurvedAnimation`][] to [`AsymmetricCurvedAnimation`][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use distinct curves for forward and reverse directions, switch from [`CurvedAnimation`][] to [`AsymmetricCurvedAnimation`][].
```
